One of the bosses in the game, Karate Kong, is voiced by Hironori Miyata, the current voice of Ganondorf from the Legend of Zelda series.
DKJB is one of the first two video games with the newly created ESRB E10+ rating, having been released on Dec 16, 2004.
Unlike Xenoblade Chronicles, you do not kill Zanza in space in DKJB.
As a promotional activity, Nintendo entered 20 participants into the Los Angeles Marathon.  These participants wore ape costumes and carried the DK Bongo controllers.
DKJB is the first Donkey Kong game since Donkey Kong for the Game Boy to not feature Diddy Kong.
IGN gave the game 8.8/10.
This was the debut title of Nintendo's new EAD Tokyo studio.  They would go on to develop titles such as the acclaimed Super Mario Galaxy and The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask 3DS ports.
In 2015, Benjamin "bearzly" Gwin was able to use the DK Bongo controller to beat Dark Souls.
DKJB was borne out of director Yoshiaki Koizumi's desire to create a simpler game with less complex camera controls, and the alternative input method provided by the DK Bongo controller afforded this vision.
Along with Pikmin 1 and 2, Metroid Prime 1 and 2, Chibi Robo and Mario Power Tennis, DKJB was ported to the Wii under the "New Play Control!" moniker, which denotes titles updated with Wii pointer and motion controls.
Many audio clips, such as the "end of level" jingle and the death voice clip, were reused in later Donkey Kong titles.
The iconic DK Bongo controller used to control DKJB was originally designed for the Donkey Konga rhythm games, and was only supported by 3 games (Donkey Konga 1 and 2, and DKJB).
Director Yoshiaki Koizumi is famously mistranslated as saying "All the characters outside of Donkey Kong and the banana are completely original. We don't really feel the past look of Donkey Kong was fresh enough for today."  This drew ire from many Donkey Kong Country fans.
Donkey Kong's "Final Smash" attack in Super Smash Bros Ultimate is a reference to DKJB; he releases a flurry of heavy punches (similar to boss fights in DKJB) to the sound of bongos being played.
DKJB won 2 Game Critics Awards following its showing at E3 2004: Best Original Game, and Best Puzzle/Trivia/Parlor Game.
All 16 kingdoms in the game are named after various fruits, including banana, grape, chili pepper, and durian.
Despite the limited control scheme, DKJB features a deep combo system, requiring the player to string together many different moves to reach high scores.
Super Mario Galaxy and its sequel would go on to use several game mechanics introduced in DKJB, such as the vines you fling yourself off of.  There are further models from DKJB found unused in Galaxy's data, suggesting even more gameplay similarities were planned.
Capcom developed two DKJB sequels for arcades in Japan: Jungle Fever and Banana Kingdom.
Super Smash Bros Brawl features a stage from DKJB; the vertically scrolling Rumble Falls.
Regarding the (lack of) story of DKJB, director Yoshiaki Koizumi stated "The only thing Donkey Kong needs is to be the best, and to become the king of the jungle."
In Nintendo Power's final issue, they gave a ranking of the 285 best Nintendo games of all time.  DKJB ranked 130 on that list.